Add security questionnaire answers (#18)
tomayac/cross-origin-storage: security-questionnaire.md

## 01. What information does this feature expose, and for what purposes?

The COS API exposes the availability of files identified by their SHA-256 hash across different origins. The purpose is to enable efficient sharing of large files (e.g., AI models, SQLite databases, Wasm modules) to reduce redundant downloads and storage.

## 02. Do features in your specification expose the minimum amount of information necessary to implement the intended functionality?

> Yes, the API exposes only the existence of a file and provides access to it after explicit user consent. No additional metadata or file contents are exposed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, after explicit user consent, the API exposes only the existence of a file with a known hash and provides access to it. No additional metadata is exposed.
```

## 03. Do the features in your specification expose personal information, personally-identifiable information (PII), or information derived from either?

> No. The API operates solely on file hashes and does not handle or expose any personal or identifiable user information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No.
```

## 04. How do the features in your specification deal with sensitive information?

Files can only be accessed with explicit user consent. The API does not allow arbitrary file discovery or sharing of sensitive user data without permission.

## 05. Does data exposed by your specification carry related but distinct information that may not be obvious to users?

> No. The API design ensures that only the explicit file hash and its availability are exposed, with no hidden or derived information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No.
```

## 06. Do the features in your specification introduce state that persists across browsing sessions?

Yes. Files stored in COS persist across sessions. However, their access is gated by user consent, and user agents can manage eviction policies to maintain control over this state.

## 07. Do the features in your specification expose information about the underlying platform to origins?

> No. The API does not provide any platform-specific details to origins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No.
```

## 08. Does this specification allow an origin to send data to the underlying platform?

> No. The API strictly enables storage and retrieval of files identified by hashes without direct interaction with the underlying platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No.
```

## 09. Do features in this specification enable access to device sensors?

No.

## 10. Do features in this specification enable new script execution/loading mechanisms?

No.

## 11. Do features in this specification allow an origin to access other devices?

No.

## 12. Do features in this specification allow an origin some measure of control over a user agent's native UI?

> No. The user agent remains in full control, particularly for displaying permission prompts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No.
```

## 13. What temporary identifiers do the features in this specification create or expose to the web?

None.

## 14. How does this specification distinguish between behavior in first-party and third-party contexts?

Explicit user consent is required for cross-origin access.

## 15. How do the features in this specification work in the context of a browser’s Private Browsing or Incognito mode?

> Files previously stored in COS are not accessible in Private Browsing or Incognito mode. Browser vendors may allow COS to work during an Incognito session, but the data would not be retained. Alternatively, Browser vendors may disable COS entirely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Files previously stored in COS are not accessible in Private Browsing or Incognito mode. Browser vendors may allow COS to work during an Incognito session, but the data would not be retained. Alternatively, browser vendors may disable COS entirely.
```

Nit

> None. File access is based solely on static hashes, which are not session-specific identifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None.
```

> The permission model ensures that file access is user-controlled, regardless of the context. Explicit user consent is required for cross-origin access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explicit user consent is required for cross-origin access.
```

## 16. Does this specification have both "Security Considerations" and "Privacy Considerations" sections?

Yes. The specification includes detailed sections addressing security and privacy implications, including hashing, user consent, and eviction policies.

## 17. Do features in your specification enable origins to downgrade default security protections?

> No.

Author: Made this a "Yes, upon explicit user consent".

> Files stored in COS are not accessible in Private Browsing or Incognito mode unless explicitly allowed by the user agent. Data stored during such sessions is not retained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Files previously stored in COS are not accessible in Private Browsing or Incognito mode. Browser vendors may allow COS to work during an Incognito session, but the data would not be retained. Alternatively, Browser vendors may disable COS entirely.
```

## 18. What happens when a document that uses your feature is kept alive in BFCache?

> The BFCache behavior should be aligned with user agent policies. File access requests may trigger re-validation if necessary.

Author: ```suggestion
The BFCache behavior is aligned with that of the File System Standard ([whatwg/fs#17](https://github.com/whatwg/fs/issues/17)).
```

> Yes. The specification includes detailed sections addressing security and privacy implications, including hashing, user consent, and eviction policies.

Reviewer: We don't have these sections yet.

Author: Da beißt sich die Katze in den Schwanz. https://github.com/explainers-by-googlers/template/pull/5 introduces this in the explainer template. I'll work on this after we're happy with the questionnaire, as this section, essentially, just is a "best of" from the questionnaire answers.

> No. The API requires explicit user consent for all access, ensuring that default security protections remain intact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No.
```

> The BFCache behavior should be aligned with user agent policies. File access requests may trigger re-validation if necessary.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this. We should have a look at how BFCache is integrated with OPFS and the File System Access API, related issue: https://github.com/whatwg/fs/issues/17

Author: Let's just say for now we do what OPFS does and will do whatever the outcome of https://github.com/whatwg/fs/issues/17 is. Good find!

## 19. What happens when a document that uses your feature gets disconnected?

The file access operation will terminate, and any pending storage or retrieval will fail gracefully with appropriate errors.

## 20. Does your spec define when and how new kinds of errors should be raised?

> Yes. The specification defines specific errors such as `NotAllowedError` (for denied permissions) and `NotFoundError` (for unavailable files).

Reviewer: These are not really "new kinds of errors."

Author: Yepp, made this a "No".
